---
layout: post
title: LLMs
date: 23-03-2025
categories:
    - "meditations"
---

I've been wrestling with large language models at work for about 2 years now, to
get them to do the things that I want. And what I've come to realise is that we
might have accidentally stumbled upon something truly groundbreaking here, and
_still_ be sleeping on it.

I use `python` as the interface language to communicate with these models, and
there is this sense of profound excitement whenever I run my little `py` file to
get an output. "Does it understand what I'm asking? How good is it at doing
that? How do I align it to get the stuff that I want?" Lately, I’ve been hazily
dreaming of prompts, which is a little extreme, but I think it’s a good
trade-off.  The most incredible thing about an LLM is that it understands human
language exceptionally well.

I am witnessing the birth of two powerful unlocks here.

Language, as we know it, is a powerful wand. It is a medium to convert intent,
to invoke an action and comprehend feedback. This is agentic behaviour, and if
you have a personal machine doing that, you have a self-functioning entity that
is an extension of you. You are no longer just a lone, powerless individual ---
you are something more. With this unlock, there is a deep well to explore here,
and I think we have only started to scratch the surface.

The second unlock is something I’m truly excited about. If you can get a model
to understand your language, in theory, you could command or instruct it to
reason about ideas. If you can get it to reason about ideas, no matter how
unagentic it might be, you still get something extraordinary for free ---
compressed intelligence **conversing** with you in perpetuity.

I am of the belief that having dialogues / conversations is the path to think
better. With that possibility here, you can now truly focus on the task you have
been working on all your life --- to push your brain to limits it has never seen
before. 10x intelligible or even more.

Leveraging a new technology to become smarter might sound like a tagline from
some cheap self-help book. But there is a lot to be gained here. Being a smarter
individual consists of having a good understanding of a variety of fields, being
able to build a concept from first principles, making better decisions by not
falling into fallacies, asking better questions, writing better, speaking better
and getting into the habit of consuming new knowledge effectively — which is
essentially understanding how to learn. These are foundational skills, and
improving on them gives unimaginable benefits across everything that you do.

LLMs are able to help in every one of these atomic skills if you know how to
work them.

The ones who will win are those who will put in effort into intellectually
evolving with this free aid --- not merely using it to get work done.

Machines have always been an extension of our physical capabilities --- cars,
tools, heck even a tiny screwdriver. They all served a purpose _for_ us,
something that we were inherently not able to do with our physical bodies. We
now have something that exists as a catalyst to push the frontier of our
intelligence.

We are at the beginning of the age of self.

![coopers-farm.png](../public/2025-03-23-llms/coopers-farm.png)
<p align="center"><em>Cooper's Farm, Interstellar</em></p>

*I’ve always been awed by this scene from the movie. The tractors are autonomous
entities, but when their programming went haywire, they instinctively returned
to their master—Cooper—so he could repair them and send them back to work.  In
this moment, they felt like an extension of him --- machines he was
orchestrating. Later, he would go on to command even more advanced ones --- TARS
and CASE.*