2nd November 2022

I knew I was in the final few pages of the book and so I did put in a lot of
effort to finish it. I read on the train on the way to work, read in the
toilet, read at lunchtime, read all the way back home, sat at the LRT platform
to finish the book before returning back home. And I did complete it. 

It is kind of weird to say that I did forget about a few scenes at the starting
of the book. I am not sure if it is because scenes were actually forgettable or
it was because I just took a really long time to complete this book. I feel it
might have been a few months. I don't recall when I started with the book. 

I can't really come to conclusions about the book. And I don't really
understand why I am having difficulty coming up with some sort of review for
this. May it is because I have to give some time before words can sort of flow. 
But this book was intense for sure. Back-to-back suicides is not something that
is very digestable. However, I felt the sadness the main character felt is
something any of us can understand and take in. There were a lot of beautiful
moments in the book, where the author was trying to let us hang in suspension.
In some sort of frozen state. And I loved that. I loved the sadness, I loved
the sexuality of the characters, I loved that mundane of everyday activities
the main character had to endure. I loved the slowness of the world. I just
loved to have been frozen in time between the pages, with the characters. Ah, 
this was a beautiful book indeed.

I don't think many would love it, mainly because there is no story per se. It
was more off a zoom-in and zoom-out sort of story where we suddenly jump into
someone's life for a prolonged period of time and then jump out. We just follow
along till the author has decided we should get out, and that's what happens. 
It gave a lot of Manchester By the Sea vibes - a movie of similar taste and
vibe. 

I think I loved that weirdness of it. The things a particular character did,
wow, it was just so horrifyingly weird I loved it so much. It was such a
doubtful thing that the main character did not go "wtf" throughout the book.
But it sort of goes to show the depth in characters Murakami envisioned. People
in real life are definitely much weirder, so this I did whole-heartedly accept
and enjoy.


